While shopping for a rug in-person allows you to get a better sense of its true coloring and texture, there are so many more options online — and you get the added perk of having it delivered right to your doorstep. So, say goodbye to lugging a massive roll down the street. Sure, finding the perfect rug for your space online can be quite the task and even a bit overwhelming. After all, there are so many options, thousands of conflicting reviews and tons of designs and materials to choose from. Not to to mention, rugs can be expensive! In an effort to help you create a comfy and chic environment in your home, The Post shopping team rounded up 20 different online retailers to help your in your pursuit of purchasing a fabulous rug online. From Wayfair, Home Depot and even Urban Outfitters — there’s bound to be an option from one of the following shopping platforms that will work perfectly for your space. Keep reading to discover your ideal floor mate. Rugs USA has thousands of options available in so many different styles and sizes. The best part? They almost always have a sale going on — so you can find good quality rugs at affordable price points. If you own house pets, kids or just have anxiety about ruining your new rug, Ruggable is the way to go. All of the brand’s rugs are completely machine washable (with mild detergent and dry on low heat), lightweight, stain-resistant, water-resistant and designed to fit conveniently in your machines — no matter how big the rug is. West Elm has many great options for those looking to create the perfect, century modern and high-end feel. Wayfair is another great place to buy quality rugs for both indoors and outdoors (and they’re usually on sale, too!). If you’re not afraid to spend a little extra cash, Serena & Lily has many luxurious options that would look great in any home. For traditional and durable rugs (for both indoors and outdoors), Home Depot has a plethora to choose from. Amazon sells everything these days — including trendy and comfortable rugs sold at a variety of different price points. If you’re shopping for a teen or even a recent graduate that’s looking to decorate their first apartment, Urban Outfitters is a great place to search for a rug. They’re trendy, affordable and won’t break the bank. Lulu and Georgia sells many different styled rugs including flat-weaved, hand-knotted, vintage, modern, Moroccan and both indoor and outdoor options. You can find a lot of different rugs at Overstock as well, with sizes ranging from 3′ x 5′ to as large as 10′ x 14′. If you’re going for a luxurious, bohemian vibe, you can’t go wrong with a good quality rug from Anthropologie. Rugs.com has a lot of fun options to choose from including Persian/oriental, modern, natural, geometric, solid-colors, tribal, braided, plush and many more. Crane & Canopy’s rug collection features mainly neutral and pastel designed options that we think could look great in beach houses and beyond. Whether you’re on the hunt for area rugs, runners, bath mats, doormats, outdoor rugs — All Modern’s got you covered. At Macy’s, you can find more than 50,000 rugs to choose from, ranging from brown florals to colorful prints to add a pop of sass to your space. If you’re looking for simple and durable, Ikea not only sells affordable furniture but that same goes for their rugs, too. Walmart has a lot rugs for both indoors and outdoors that are often discounted, too. While Society6‘s rug collection mainly consists of smaller options, the artists-driven online marketplace has so many great finds that will add character to any space. Boutique Rugs has a lot of different styles to choose from including animal designs, Aztec rugs, country and floral patterns, contemporary options and more. For those looking for abstract and artistic rugs, Cold Picnic is the place to look. If you want a one-of-a-kind rug that doesn’t break the bank, Revival Rugs is the best bet. In addition to curating restored vintage rugs, they also offer original, design-centric rugs fresh off the loom. Like their vintage predecessors, these pieces are made by hand and are meant to withstand the test of time. World Market also has a ton to offer, ranging from kid’s rugs to living room options at different price points. Check out New York Post Shopping for more content.