Reduce, reuse, recycle… and resell. With luxury goods, this is the new way to shop. Not only are you giving a second life to incredible designer handbags and clothing, but you get to save some money in the process and get to take home Chanel, Prada, Gucci and more for a fraction of the retail price. Plus, the act of reselling and buying pre-loved luxury goods is actually super trendy. According to a Nov. 29 report from McKinsey and Company, the already 25 to 30 billion dollar industry is expected to grow by 10 to 15 percent over the next decade. The study attributes a few major drivers to the increase, including the desire for rare and luxe goods, the sustainability aspect of buying pre-owned items and of course affordability and price. To get in on the luxury resell craze, you don’t need to go to far, as there are a few vetted sites to get you started. We rounded up eight of these websites, some of which are dedicated to pursed and bags while others span fashion, accessories and more for both him and her. To add some luxury to your wardrobe and promote circular shopping, head to The Luxury Closet to start curating your own collection. The site offers both women’s and men’s items, and even has special sections for shoes, handbags and accessories. This site offers an impressive range of designers, too, from super high-end brands like Gucci, Versace and Hermes to some more affordable brands like Tumi, Adidas, Calvin Klein and more. Not only can you rent the runway, but you can buy it now, too. The popular rental platform is also a great place to buy second-hand designer duds, as you can rent them to make sure they fit you and your lifestyle before opting to purchase them for a reduced price. We had the awesome opportunity to test the rental service and loved the range of designers and huge selection, so we think you will too and should you fall in love with an item or two, you can keep it forever and rent the rest. If you’ve been coveting a Coach bag but don’t want to spend your full paycheck on a new one, you’ll love the sound of this. Coach (Re)Loved is a new program where you can shop both pre-loved Coach bags and accessories and see some re-designed bags you won’t find anywhere else. For the former, check out the Coach Restored and the Coach Remade collections that takes gently worn bags and restores them to tip-top shape or turns them into something unique and new. Chances are you won’t find a collection as vast as Vestiaire Collective when it comes to luxury and vintage fashions. The site offers an impressive range of designers from Hermes, Chanel, Jimmy Choo, Balenciaga and so many more, in addition to a section for vintage finds from all the best eras of fashion. Even better, they also have options for children, so your little ones can be just as fashionable as mom and dad. Luxury items for a great price? We have this in the bag. Rebag is the site to be on to both buy and sell your designer goods, turning your closet into a rotating carousel of the top fashions for a fraction of the price. Rebag has the top designers to choose from, from Louis Vuitton and Cartier to David Yurman and Tom Ford. They also offer an outlet option, stocked with even more designer finds at a serious discount. Support the earth and your luxury fashion cravings all at the same time with Selfridges. The Mon Vintage by Marie Blanchet collection on the site features an impressive collection of designer pieces that are all pre-loved, ready now for their forever home in your closet. Brands vary but we spotted some Chanel, Celine, Prada and even some unique Comme de Garcons items in the mix. For even more sustainable shopping options, you can also check out their Project Earth page for a mix of designer and luxury items that can either be recycled, refilled or are sustainably made. You know what they say about good fashion karma? It really is true and at What Goes Around Comes Around, you’ll find it even easier to shop sustainably for luxury items. The vintage site sells more than just older items, spanning coveted collectors items like the Hermes Birkin and Kelly bags and picks from Louis Vuitton artist collaboration collections. You can also shop by brand, with Fendi, Judith Leiber, Rolex and more in the mix. Wanna make a little trade? Sell your old designer items and then go shop for something new all on the same site. Tradesy is perfect for that, as they are super easy to sell with and even easier to shop on, knowing everything on the site has been authenticated and is 100% legit. Shop by designer if you have your eye on Tory Burch, Stella McCartney or Givenchy to name a few, or head to the vintage section for some OG items that never go out of style. They also have a dedicated wedding page for your special day, making it even easier to find something new, something new, something borrowed and maybe even something blue all at the same time.